Andrew Gunsch, Nick Leonard, Dalton Kuehl, Masahiro Kiji, Danqi Yin
# Software must meet the following requirements:
## Business requirements:
* The software must operate as a payroll system, and track employee payment information.  Users are categorized as employee users, department head users, or admin users, and reports can be generated by employees, department heads, and admin users.  
* To meet project constraints, a deliverable product must be available by October 2019. Additionally, the total project cost must be less than $36,000.
* The system must be used in the U.S., and must adhere to all regulations pertaining to payroll generating systems in the United States. Furthermore, the system must utilize English as its language.

## User requirements

* The system must differentiate between three types of users on login, each with different access privileges.  Only accounting department employees will be given admin privileges.
* Regular employee users can login to the system and view information about their current biweekly pay period and stored personal information.  They cannot view any other records for any other employee.  Personal information must include name, address, salary, position, federal tax rate, state tax rate, medical costs, and status.
* Department head users must have the access privileges of all regular employee users in the same department.  Additionally, they must be able to generate reports for their department as a whole, which list total departmental pay, total taxes, total medical deductions, and a list of each individual employee's name and individual pay.  
* Department head users must be able to request payment reports on individual employees within their department as well, but they cannot view the personal information of other employees. To access this information, department heads must be able to search for employees within their department by name or employee ID number.
* Admin users must have the access privileges of department head users. However, they must be able to generate full reports on any individual employee in the company, including personal information.  To access this information, they must be able to search for any employee in the company using name or employee ID number.
* Admin users must be able to generate company-wide reports, which track department totals and the company total of employee pay, taxes, benefit deductions. Benefit deductions include (but are not limited to) medical insurance, dental coverage, retirement plans, and stocks.

## Functional
* The system must pull information from a previously established database to generate payroll reports.  Database information includes all pertinent information about employees.
* Using database information, the system must calculate projected gross income, state tax, federal tax, benefit deductions, and net income, for a bi-weekly pay period.  Benefit deductions are the same as previously defined.
* The system must have a search function that operates based upon the current user's privileges.  If the user is a standard employee, it must not be visible.  If the user is a department head, it must limit search results to those within that user's department.  If the user is an admin, search results must be company-wide.

## Implementation requirements:

* The system must use previously established databases of employee information to generate records.  Any changes to the database or the payroll system must be stored in the database.

## Nonfunctional requirements:
* The payroll system must be able to generate at least 300 payrolls per second in its first release.
* The system must be able to handle arbitrary amounts of money and employees.

# Should list
The requirements below should be implemented but are not vital to the first version of our software. These requirements have to do with users adding and editing information in the database, and thus in the payroll system. These are requirements that we aim to implement in the future to add functionality to our software but don't hinder the basic functionality of our software.
* Admin users should be able to edit/add employees' data. Such as personal information like name, payroll ID, position, date of payment, taxes and gross pay. (User)
* Admin users should be able to change status for those who quit or retire from the company. (User)
* Passwords for admin should change on a regular basis. (Functional)
* Users should be able to input employee information directly into the system manually. (User)
* Admin should be able to suspend employees. (User)
* Suspended employees should be removed from payroll system. (Functional)
* Any information changed by admin users should edit the information stored in the remote databases. (Functional)

# Could list
These requirements are not necessary in the first release. However, based off of the company's situation, e.g. having international employees, needs for handling actual payments as well as just generating payroll, or advanced searching systems, these features could be added to the system in the later releases.   

* User can request payment in check or direct deposit (User).  
* Admin users can specify which payment methods employees receive (User).
* Reports will generate as previously specified, but can also include the preferred payment method for each employee (functional).
* The system can appropriately handle different employee residence information, such as U.S. citizens, J1 Visa holders, H1 Visa holders, and others. (Functional)
* Search systems can include correction and attempt to find matches for misspelled entries. (Functional)


# Won't list
These requirements are completely optional, and they do not present significant benefit to the company. They will not be included in the initial release of the product, but they may be considered for future releases. Some are requirements regarding the possibility of implementing a Graphical User Interface and supporting hourly workers. The payroll system is meant to be a command line program that the company can use to track payments to its salaried employees, so there is no need for either of these features.
* Users won't be able to run the program through a GUI with a computer mouse. (User)
* Users won't be able to view html pages for logging into the system, reading instructions, adding employees, editing records, or viewing archived information. (User)
* The user won't be able to view video instructions. (User)
* The payroll system won't enable hourly employees to clock in and out, and it won't calculate payment based on clocked hours. (Functional)
* The system won't calculate overtime pay. (Functional)
* The system won't enable employees to change their scheduled work hours. (Functional)
* The system won't allow employees to request an advance in their pay. (Functional)
